BUSINESS OBJECTIVE

Understanding the Business objective
The Product developed may be good, but if it doesn't meet the business objective is not worthy.
High level questions

What is the purpose of the project? or why is the project being budgeted?
What are the goals and objectives? or where is the ROI for the project?
In the eye of the project, what is success or how will it measured?

EG:User wants to build a comprehensive feature for understanding the behaviour of a customer/accounts in an automated way
Proceeding without understanding these questions is going to embarass the BA at some point.
-------------------
WRITING A BUSINESS CASE:
A document that is presented to decision makers, based on the certain actions, here is the cost-benefit ratio.
Its the driver of the project.

Its used to convince decision makers,of the merits of solving that particular problem.
Business analyst may also have a task to create business case.

Business Case :

1.Executive Summary- Summary for the executive people to skim through fast
2.Problem Statement
3.Analysis
4.Problem Solution
5.Cost-Benefit Ratio
6.Recommendation
-----------------------------
STATKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION:
Who are stakeholders?
Stakeholders are any Individual/groups that are either Indirectly or directly affected by the project.
They may have either positive or negative impact on the project.

As a Biz analyst, we need to engage with them for the requiremnt analysis.

Eg: Executives / Project Members/ Customers / Suppliers / Vendors / Any third- party

-----------------------
REQUIREMENTS:

60 % of the project fail due to the improper requirements

The requirements may be improper due to the followings:
1. Missing Requriements
2. Incorrect Requirements
3. The requirements may not meet the standards

As a result, its critical to document a good requirement.

Types:

1.Business Requirements
2.Stakeholder req
3.Solution req
4.Transition req

1.Business Req:
This requirement supports the higher level needs of the organisation

2.Stakeholder Req:
Needs of the Individual/ groups that are either internal/ external

3.Solution requirements:

This is what the customer needs at the end of the work.

* Functional req
* Non-Functional req
* Constraints

1. CONSTRAINTS:

Eg: 
-->The product budget may not exceed $50000
-->The product shall run on the company's existing machines only, again due to the budgeting limitations.
    As a result, we may need to restrict from working on sophisticated technology.
-->Implementation of the product cannot interrupt daily business
-->The last 5 years of historical data are needed to support the analysis

2. FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS:

-->High level example of features and functions 
-->Things products must do

EG:
The product must display the orders that needs to be delivered
The prodcut must track the orders that ar
The product must display the stocks in the inventory

3. NON-FUNCTIONAL REQ:

Look and feel requirements- Interface/ Intended appearance
Usabailty - The technical ability of the users and trainings if needed
Performance - How fast/ accurate( Analytics) /safe
Operational- Products intending Operating requirement
Maintainability- How adaptable is that for a change How long will the current solution last?

Portabilty-will there be any options for additional plug-in installation in future for enhancement?
Can this be installed in multiple locatioos?

Security- Who has access to what?
How confidential is the data

Legal requriements- Confirmance to the laws

Eg:
** The product shall be easy to use even for the first time users
** The product shall be upgraded for future users
** The product shall allow only users to view the partuclar feature
**The product shall be sccalable to multiple geographies


---------------------
SMART REQUIREMENTS:

1. SPECIFIC. 

Clear no ambiguity
Consistent, Same terminology throught
Simple

Questions to ask: what? who? why? where?

Avoid: 
'Some' 'Several' 'Many'
EG:
Sometimes it functions like that, clearly say when it functions incorrectly
It takes 'several' seconds to load
BA: Please sepcify exactly or approximatly if it takes 7 secs/ 7 mins

The file needs to be 'downloaded'
BA: Please specify where it needs to be downloaded.

2. MEASURABLE

Indicators should be quantifiable

Questions to ask: 
How much?
How will i know if its accomplished?

EG: User: The system should be fast? 
BA: Fast? How long the response time should be?

3.ATTAINABLE (Feasible)

Requirements should be within technical expertise
within the scope of the project
within the budget
within the time

You cannot have an outlandish requirements

Questions to ask:
--Has it been done before?
--Are there any known constarints? (environmental/ physical/ security)



Eg: User want 1 sec response, but users are put up in India and server is in london.

So the environment is not conducive

Guideline:
---If BA is not sure about the technical expertise for the requirements, he needs to conslut technical team before giving a nod
---Ensure sufficient time/resource/ budget

4. REASONABLE (Worthwhile)

Validate the efforrt is worth the requirement

Questions to ask:

Is it worthwhile?


5.TRACABLE:

The requirements needs to be tracebale through design, Implementation and validation phase

Questions to ask:

Is there any possible way through which we can validate this requirement?











.
